---
title: 'Endure'
description: "Endure and keep hammering."
date: 2023-07-31
toc: false
postId: 5
tags:
  - musing
  - endure
  - fitness
  - health
---

At present, I am reading ["Endure"](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60872604-endure) by Cameron Hanes; an absolutely riveting piece of literature. When life transitions become overwhelming for me, my contemplations can sometimes get the better of me - however this book serves as a timely reminder that each individual lives within this vast universe and faces unique challenges each day - in Cameron Hanes' words: "Keep Hammering!”.

The other evening, an insatiable passion for coding held me rapt, the rhythmic dance of my fingers on the keyboard resonating in the quiet of my living room for nearly five uninterrupted hours. The clock hands inched towards 3am, but my determination didn't waver. Yet, in the midst of this fervour, a persistent thought emerged, challenging my priorities: "With such devotion to coding, why don't you channel this same energy into your health?”. As the hours unfolded, the weight of self-doubt diminished, replaced by a newfound clarity.

Indeed, truth can be a bitter pill to swallow. Yet, it's the same unvarnished truth that empowers us to persevere during challenging epochs. In a world increasingly blurred by illusions, discerning reality becomes an art. Among these mirages, our inner thoughts often stand as beacons of truth. How many of our waking hours are ensnared in deception? Social media's allure, for one, has masterfully beguiled us.

> What brings you fulfilment and a sense of purpose? Focus on that and foster a life built around it. Study your craft and spend time excelling in it, whatever “it” might be. Find others who share your passion and follow their footsteps. Love the journey and ignore thoughts of the finish line, as this is a race that never ends.
>
> — <cite>Cameron Hanes. Ensure: How to work hard, outlast, and keep hammering.</cite>

Nestled comfortably within my Herman Miller chair, my legs rumble with tiredness. Over this weekend I had the pleasure of connecting with the [Concept 2 BikeErg](https://www.concept2.com/bikeerg/concept2-bikeerg) and igniting my passion for cycling. As I pedalled along, meter by meter was carefully recorded on my bike's console; my heart raced at every mile covered, punctuated only by an unwavering voice in my mind: “keep hammering.”. Fitness has long been something that has held great respect in my eyes. My journey with it, however, has been filled with intense ups and downs: when I commit fully I do so with almost alarming intensity; conversely when I falter it can quickly deteriorate into decline - yet despite these cycles one constant remains: an indomitable spirit to persevere despite major life transitions. Why cycling though? Because it hurts.
